This is an updated video on every AI model. You see, the AI model landscape is shifting. So, I wanted to do like a snappy little refresh to make sure that you're not missing out on some amazing new models and new use cases out there, especially with so many powerful open source AI models available now. I have personally been updating the way that I use different models for different things. So, maybe you can too after watching this video. Sounds good. All right, let's go. A portion of this video is sponsored by Victor. Okay, so here are the categories of models that I will be covering today. The first category is the flagship models. These are like the frontier highest performance models. Then we have the workhorse mid-tier class. They are the most balanced in terms of capability, price, and speed and accounts for like 80% of the work that you would normally do on a day-to-day basis. Then there are the light models, small, fast, and cheap models that are the most suitable for automations and bulk processing. And I also want to point out some more specialized models too. for example, those that are best at coding, different types of multimodality, like music, video, audio, those are best for customization, like if you want to fine-tune and build on top of them, etc. So, let's start off with the flagship models. Just as a note, a company may define a model as their flagship model, but I may not include it in this category because compared to other flagship models out there, maybe it's just not quite there yet. I want to keep this list of flagship models like legitimately the best of the best. So, starting off, we have Claude Fable 5. This currently is the smartest model that you can buy. In fact, it's so smart, as most of you know, the US government literally took it offline for like 3 weeks. So, yes, very capable for sure, but it's also expensive, slow, and has restrictions. For me personally, I like using Fable for my most complex planning and brainstorming sessions. Also for like very complicated software projects. Then there's GPT 5.6 Soul by OpenAI. This is the current flagship all-arounder. It is at fable level coding, but only half its price. It's also the best inclass when it comes to terminal and web-based browsing and doesn't ask for permissions on things like continuously. Maybe because it has less restrictions. This one I don't know, not verified, but I feel like it. And it's often bundled with image generation capabilities, which Fable does not have. And because I do a lot of coding related tasks, I especially like using this model for building things when I need like very accurate [music] aesthetic visual designs, like these desktop apps that I made, which I use every day to cope with my ADHD. Next, we have Claude Opus 5. Opus used to be Anthropic's flagship model, but now it's been demoted to the reliable flagship model. really great to use when your Fable Codto runs out. And I personally like how it's more direct and honest about what it knows and doesn't know compared to Fable. Next, we have Gemini 3.1 Pro. Come on, Google. You promised us Gemini 3.5 Pro like months ago. But despite that, you still belong in the flagship category because you are the multimodal king. Gemini Pro is the only Frontier model that actually can watch a video. But when it comes to raw capabilities, especially coding abilities, it is lagging behind other flagships. And because of how much work that Google has put in to integrate Gemini across its mass ecosystem of Google products, you probably are using this model or one of its siblings a lot more than you think like through Gmail, notebook LM, Google Docs, Sheets, YouTube. This is just not a model that I would really directly reach for and especially when it comes to coding. But maybe with 3.5 Pro, whenever it drops, things would be different. Do let me know in the comments by the time you're watching this video. Has a 3.5 Pro dropped and what you think about it. Next up, we have Gro 4.5. But by the time that you are watching this video, it might be Grog 4.6. But regardless, it still belongs in this flagship category. With this model, you get near Opus level coding abilities, but at a fraction of the cost, and it does have X data that's built into it, which is very helpful if you're someone who's interested in having real-time social news pulse. Do let me know in the comments as well if by the time I see your video, it is in fact 4.6 and any first impressions that you have. All right, time for the last model of this category, and it is a very special model, and that is Kimmy K3. Kimmy K3 is a very special model because it is a flagship model that is also open source. Well, technically open way, but basically you can go and actually download this model yourself and run it on your machine. Technically speaking, like most of us don't have machines that are big enough to run this model, but technically you could. Capability wise, it beats out all models out there other than Fable and GPTL. And when it came out, there was so much hype surrounding it yet. Justified. Having used them myself can confirm as well. This is a really big deal because the gap between open- source and closed source models is so so so small. So we shall see what happens in the next few months. And on that dramatic note, let's go on to our next category. Now all of these models themselves represent only raw potential. What actually matters is where you point that potential at. Every Monday, our marketing team used to spend 4 hours manually pulling YouTube analytics and marketing numbers across platforms before we can even have a strategic conversation about what to do next for the week. But now we hired Victor for the straw. Now every Monday morning before anybody even opens their laptop, Victor has already pulled our YouTube analytics, cross referenced our content performance across platforms, flag what worked and didn't work, and posted a clean summary onto our Slack channel. He also drafts content recommendations based upon what performed the best that week, and cues them for our approval. [music] So yeah, as a team collectively, that used to be 4 hours of work every single Monday, but now it just appears. Victor is an AI employee that lives in our Slack, connects to 3,200 plus tools, and does the work instead of just answering questions about it. The whole team shares him and he works through weekends building things when nobody else is at the desk. So, if you also want to hire Victory for your team, my link and promo code is in the description. $100 of his work free, no credit card, running in minutes. Thank you so much, Victor, for sponsoring this portion of the video. Now, back to the video. The workhorse mid-tier models, aka your daily drivers, models that are still very capable, but also faster and more reasonably priced. Most suitable for probably 80% of the task that you do on a day-to-day basis. Now, it is really this mid-tier category of models that has exploded in the past few months with some very exciting new players. But let's start off with the usual suspects first. Claude Sonnet 5, the best value in the Claude family. It's my go-to model if I'm just chatting with Claude, using it with co-work, or doing some casual coding. And next, followed up, of course, by GPT 5.6 Terra. Now, this model was last year's flagship model, but only half the price. The relationship between Sonnet and Terra is a very similar dynamic between Fable and Soul from the flagship category. Terra is similar in capability to Sonet but cheaper and is a default option in the chat GBT ecosystem. Next up, Gemini 3.6 Flash. This one is kind of embarrassing, Google, because how come your mid-tier model is like low-key better than your flagship model in some things? I don't know about that, but basically this is Google's mid-tier model. Really great model. It's also fast and cheap, especially when it comes to multimodality. And if you're using any Google product, this is probably the default model. Great. We are not done with our usual suspects, our closed source models. Let's now move on to some very interesting open source models that has recently been really making waves and you should probably try out one of these models yourself if you haven't already. Let's start off with GLM 5.2. This is a Chinese open source model developed by Z.AI and it's technically the best openweight model out there. Actually beating out Sonnet 5 when it comes to terminal programming. Apparently 5.3 is supposed to be coming out soon as well. So I wonder if GLM 5.3 might end up being in the flagship territory too. In any case, this is a really cool model to try out if you want to start dabbling in the open source space. Although it is way too large for you to actually download yourself probably, unless you have like hardware that is worth hundreds and thousands of dollars. So, you probably want to try it out through some hosted version. I'm not going to go into too much detail about how to actually run and use open source models because I want to keep this video nice and snappy. And I do have another video which I'll link over here that goes into much more details about that. So, please do check it out. And that applies to all of the open source models that I will be talking about. And you know what? I'm also going to link in the free guide in description a little quick start guide for how to try out open source models if you wish. I promise you it's a lot easier than you think. Okay, so next up is Miniax M3. This is also an openweight model that is characterized as a triple threat because it has almost flagship level coding, long 1 million context window, and native vision multimodality. So you can do things like give it screenshots of stuff, ask it to turn it into code, make UI automations, and also use it to power multimodal agents. Personally, this is one of my favorite models to use on my Hermes agent cuz it genuinely is really good and also extremely cheap. Moving on to what I like to call a side gig model, the Mino V2.5 Pro by Xiaomi. So, I call it a side gig model because Xiaomi is primarily a phone company, although they do dabble in a lot of different products, too. But I just think it's kind of funny because you got like a phone company that creates this open source model that is also extremely extremely good. It has almost flagship level quality at only like 1/8 of Opus pricing and is really climbing up the ranks on open router. Truthfully, I haven't personally used this model that much. I'm using its little brother a lot more, which belongs in the flash category, which I'll talk about later. But I do want to experiment more with this model because it's supposed to be an alternative to Sonnet 5 and especially good at powering agents. Okay, so we've currently covered three open source Chinese models that are mid-tier level and also really cheap. So, you might already be thinking, "Wow, that's some great options already out there." But we're actually only halfway there. I have three more Chinese open-source midtier models that you can choose from. We have the Huen 3 HY3 model by Tencent. This is not considered the smartest open source midter level, but I got to say personal experience-wise, it is really, really good. They had a free trial of this model on news portal for Hermes and it was really, really good. People like to use it specifically for reasoning and fact verification because it is a model that overthinks everything. It is like the overthinker of the AI world. Plus, it does follow instructions really well, too. Another model we have is the Quen 3 model. The Quen family has the most diverse variety of models out there to pick from. So, I'm going to talk a lot more about the Quen family models a little bit later in the video, but it very much has also earned its place in the mid-tier model category, too. As a little fun fact, whenever I try out like a new agent or harness or software that requires some type of open source model, I usually go for one of the Quen family. And finally, we have my personal favorite open- source mid-tier model. That is the Deepseek V4 Pro. It performs better than most mid-tier models, especially when it comes to math, coding, and deep reasoning. Yet, it is dirt cheap. So, it is my favorite go-to model when it comes to coding task, especially when I run out of both claude and open AAI credits. Great budget option. So, without a doubt, Chinese open source models is absolutely dominating, especially in this mid-tier category, but there are a couple of other models in this category that is not Chinese, too. So, let's start off with Inkling by Thinking Machines. This is America's answers to open source models. It is deliberately not the smartest model out there, but is the most customizable, calibrated, and least censored Western model. It also has very impressive multimodality with native audio, vision, and text processing. I must admit, I have personally not given this model its fair chance yet, especially when it comes to customization. So, that is on my to-do list. But let me know in the comments if you have tried out this model and what you think about it. Now, time for the other competitive non-Chinese open-source mid-tier model, Europe's Pride, Mistro large 3. This is Europe's biggest open source model for people who don't want to be using US or Chinese models. It does have some specific EU/GDPR regulations that are built into it, which I believe is very important if you are from Europe because you guys have a lot of laws. Again, I must admit this is not a model that I've really played around with much because I just never really had that incentive cuz I'm not from Europe. But if you are, please leave in the comments on what you think about this model. Okay, so before I go on to the next category, I do have to round out this category with what we call the ghost of the open models. That would be Llama. This is the fading formal king of open source models developed by Meta. Unfortunately, it has been frozen in time because Meta has decided to go close source now with their new Muse pivot. Speaking of Muse, I [music] am sorry I lied. I do have to include Muse 1.1 Spark into this category of mid-tier models. Since this is a video about every AI model, this is the first close source model by Meta, and honestly, I find this model quite disappointing. It is supposed to be a generalist model that's especially good at computer use and multi-agent orchestration. But I did use it for computer use and multi-agent orchestration and was still quite disappointed by it. I mean, like, it's not bad, right? It's not like a bad model, but it's just like nothing special. Especially since it's a closed source model. I don't see why I would reach for this model compared to all the other open-source models that are out there. So, low-key a flop in my opinion. But let me know in the comments what you think. With that, let's move on to the final category of models, the light models. Models that are fast, cheap, and quick. Best to be used for high volume bulk processing and [music] automations. for the open source models in this category. You can actually download them and run many of these models on your local machine, which is incredibly cool. I'll be talking more specifically about which models are the best to run locally on your machine a little bit later in this video. But let's get through this final category of models first. First, we have Haiku 4.5. This is an anthropic model that is up to four to five times faster than Sonnet and is meant to power sub agents under a smarter general model like Sonnet, [music] Opus, or Fable. It is the go-to high volume processing model if you want to stay in the anthropic ecosystem. Then we have a GPT 5.6 Luna. Luna is the smallest, cheapest, and fastest model of the GPT 5.6 family. So this is the model to choose for your high volume chats, bulk processing, and for powering your sub agents if you want to stay in the open AI ecosystem. Our team does have some OpenAI specific products. So we do use the Luna model quite often. Next up is the Gemini 3.5 Flashlight. This is actually pretty impressive, Google, because it is the fastest model ever measured, allegedly. It's great to use if you need something real time like real-time autocomplete search functionalities, instant document triaging, high-speed throughput. It is a defining choice and it's very impressive. Good job. The other two close source options in this category is the Quen 3 flash which as it name suggests is extremely fast and also has a 1 million plus context [music] window and extremely cheap. There's of course also the Gro 4 fast. This is XAI's small fast model that is especially good at live news routing taking advantage of the XAI newsfeed and ecosystem. Hello, Tina from the future here. Just wanted to pop in to let you know that I have a free live session on August 17th with Teachable AI Academy on [music] my AI COO setup. I have offloaded a lot of op stuff now to AI. So, I'm really excited to show you guys. Plus, there will be a live Q&A as well. Hope to see you guys there. Link is in description. Now, let's talk about some open models in this category. Starting off with Deepseek V4 Flash. This is the little brother of my favorite open source model, the Deepseek V4 Pro. And just like it, it is really, really cheap. In fact, at more than 55 times cheaper than GPT 5.5, it is practically free, I would say, girl math. And it's still a legitimately really good model. It especially excels at doing classifications at large scales. Unfortunately, for most people, you probably still need to use this as a hosted version through something like Open Router because the hardware requirements is just out of reach for most people because you do need hardware that's like over 128 gigs, which at least I don't have. And that is also the case for the next model dubbed the volume king, the Mimo V2.5 from Xiaomi. This is the little brother of the Mimo V 2.5 Pro which we talked about earlier and it is actually the number one mostus model on the entire open router marketplace because you get near mid-tier level performance for absolute dirt cheap. So people use it for high volume tasks, especially high volume code assistants. Two other models to pay attention to that are just out of reach for most consumer hardware is Ling 3.0 Flash from Ant Group. Personally haven't used this model but it is growing very fast in popularity so maybe I should. Second is Mistro small 4. This is three models in one. It has reasoning, vision and coding all merged together into a tiny little package at a very low cost. Now very exciting to round out this category. I have three other models that I want to highlight which you can in fact run on consumer hardware like whatever laptop you're using can probably run this even your phone or Raspberry Pi. So the first one are the smaller models of the Quen family. Like I said earlier, the Quinn family is massive and they have all sorts of sizes of different models ranging from models that are only 0.5B all the way up to trillion parameters. So I'm going to put on screen some of my favorite Quinn models that you can run on your consumer devices. And just to put it out there, my personal favorite is the Quen 3.635B model. It does require over 32 gigs of VRAM. So slightly on the higherend side, but this is the model that basically runs my Hermes agent. So got to give a shout out here. The Gemma 4 family model from Google is also amazing for running on low code devices. It is considered the best mom model, especially for phones. And of course, you can run it on practically any laptop that you have. And finally, there is the 54 family from Microsoft. This is Microsoft's take on a small model. It is especially good at math and logic considering how tiny it is. This is my personal favorite model to use on a Raspberry Pi. Amazing. Wow, we have covered a lot of models. I don't know about you, but my head is already spinning. But since this video is called every model, I would be aiss to not also cover the specialized models out there. Models that are trained specifically for certain tasks. So the good news is that we have actually covered most of these models already. So for each of these specialist categories, I'm only going to briefly touch on the models that I haven't already covered earlier and put the rest of them on screen. All right, ready? Lightning round. Coding specialist. Take a screenshot or check out the free guide in description. We have pretty much covered all of the coding models actually except for Kimmy K 2.7 code which is a great model for cheap daily coding and swarms. The core 3 coder next also open source model great as a coding agent and it can actually fit on your machine for local and private coding. Mistral devastrol which is Europe's agent coder with EU compliant automations and longat 2.0. First of all I think this is a hilarious name and it's developed by Mtoan which is a Chinese food delivery company as a side hustle but despite that it's actually really good. Next category, multimodal reasoning. Take a screenshot. We have actually covered all of these models already previously. Image generation. The absolute best image generation model right now is GPT image 2 from OpenAI. Fun fact, when you use CatchBT, the flagship models don't actually have image generation capabilities. They're actually secretly bundling together GPT image 2. This is followed closely by the Nano Banana family from Google and Midream. Cream is one of my personal favorites for image generation. And Idoggram is considered the most reliable when it comes to complex image generation. And of course, we do need to mention Muse image from Meta. Closed source model is part of the Muse family. And the last model that I do have to mention by name is Flux 2. It is widely considered the best open source image model that you can actually download and generate images yourself with. Now, for the rest of them, take a screenshot cuz we're moving on to video generation. Video 3.1 from Google is the current king of video generation, especially since OpenAs Sora has died. This is followed by Runway Gen 4.5 that people really like because it also has an editor suite where you can edit and manipulate videos very easily. Cleaning Omni is also very popular, especially because you can lip-s sync in five different languages. And Seance is currently having a viral moment with top raw quality and the ability of mixing all different types of assets together. Here are some examples of things that people have created using Cance. Really amazing. And for the rest of them, take a screenshot. Now, next category is music, voice, and audio. The top two close source competitors is Sunuo and Udo. Sunno is considered the best for full songs and vocals, while Udo is considered to have the best raw audio fidelity for instrumentals. It's also considered legally cleaner because Udo has fully licensed UMG plus Warner platforms. Now, when it comes to voice cloning across 70 different languages, the clear winner is 11 Labs with its sister 11 Labs music that produces licensed data music and that is safe to monetize. So, very popular with content creators. Lia 3 is Google's API first composer with real-time streaming and GBT Live is OpenAI's new real-time voice tier. Now on the open source side, Voxro TTS is for openweight speech which you can also self-host and fish audio for open- source free for AI text to speech and free voice cloning. Take a screenshot. Now when it comes to customization, I mean like fine-tuning these models and building on top of these models. Inkling, which I already mentioned previously, was really built just for this as well as Nvidia's Neimotron 3 family. And of course, we can't forget the Quen family. It is the widest model family on Earth. 201 languages and every size model. It is the favorite base model to self-host and fine-tune for today. Next category, enterprise and retrieval. We already mentioned Nvidia's Neotron 3, which is also the standout of this category. There's also coher, which is nicknamed the rag plumbing specialist, great for enterprise search and retrieval pipelines. There's also Amazon Nova 2 plus Nova, the all AWS stack for enterprises that are already in the Amazon ecosystem. Finally, there is perplexity sonar specifically trained for search functionalities. Last major category, the local/ self-hosted category. I've already covered most of these models. The Quen 3.635B is my favorite local model which I run on my Mac Studio. And because I am a big fan of Hermes, the Noose Hermes 4 family is also very good and optimized for running your Hermes. And the only other family I haven't mentioned yet is the GBT OSS family. This is OpenAI's open source models that ranges in different sizes if you do like the OpenAI family of models. And finally, the last model that I do have to mention because [music] I really am serious about covering every AI model that I can is the step 3.7 flash model. This is a very specialized model and people like to call it the Big Mac special because it is a model that is specifically great when it comes to running on Apple products. Although you probably can't run it yourself because it requires over 128 gigs of RAM. Alas. All right, that's it. Oh my goodness. I think I have now covered every single AI model. At least I tried my best. Do let me know in the comments what you think about this new model landscape and if there's any models that you are curious to try out now. Plus, what's your current favorite model? And I'll see you guys in the next video or live